# RadiomicsPersona

### Patient-specific radiomic feature search with reconstructed healthy persona of knee MR images

Classical radiomic features (e.g., entropy, energy) have been designed to describe image appearance and intensity patterns. These features are directly interpretable and readily understood by radiologists. Compared with end-to-end deep learning (DL) models, lower dimensional parametric models that use such radiomic features offer enhanced interpretability but lower comparative performance in clinical tasks. In this study, we propose an approach where a standard logistic regression model performance is substantially improved by learning to select radiomic features, for individual patients, from a pool of candidate features. This approach has potentials to maintain the interpreatability of such approaches while offering similar performance to DL. In addition, we expand the feature pool by generating a patient-specific “healthy persona” via mask-inpainting using a denoising diffusion model trained on healthy subjects. Such a non-diseased baseline feature set allows not only further opportunity in novel feature discovery but also improved condition classification.
We demonstrate our method on clinical tasks such as classifying anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tears, meniscal tears, and other abnormalities. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach achieved superior performance compared to state-of-the-art DL approaches while offering added interpretability through the use of radiomic features extracted from images and supplemented by generating healthy personas. These findings highlight the potential of generative models in augmenting radiomic analysis for more robust and interpretable clinical decision-making. 
